Okay,
so continuing our employee database.
Example.
What if the computer that is running this macro has its state format as the US format?
So if this is the case and we have our eye be date variable declared as a date than
entering the date as the international format would not yield the expected result.
Because if the computers date is in the U.
S format than Excel will abide to the computers,
they form it.
So it's gonna help put the date in the American format.
So if you enter the 10th of May,
it will be outfitted as the fifth of October,
for example.
So our goal here is to solve that problem and make sure that we get consistent results no
matter what the date format on the computer that the macro is running on is so if the
computer has a state for Mitt as the international foreman or the US format,
we would still get this same result.
So let's see how we can solve that problem.
OK,
so I copied my macro here,
renamed as date format and did some changes to it.
Now I created a variable called S T.
R.
I b underscore hiring date and made its type as a string.
And basically this variable is gonna host the user's input on the input box for the
employees hiring date instead of the variable that was cold.
I be hiring date,
so it's gonna be a string instead of being good date.
And when the user inputs the date in this form,
we're gonna use some string functions to extract the date elements.
So we're gonna use the left function,
and the left function is string function,
and it works the same way as the less function in the Excel grade is a text function.
So you're gonna input the text that you need to extract the data from.
And then how many characters?
So we're gonna extract a day from the 1st 2 characters on the left and then the month we're
gonna expect it in another variable here from the two characters in the middle.
And then the year we're going to extract it from the four characters on the very right.
And then we're going to use the date serial function,
which accepts three arguments the year on the month and today to input the date in the
correct form.
And of course,
these three variables are declared as integers because on the date serial,
you should have the arguments the year on the month in the day as integer.
So this way,
no matter what the date format on the computer that the macro is running on,
we're going to get consistent results.
We're going to get the correct results each and every time.
So it's running and see what happens.
So the M plea i d.
We're gonna put seven here and say We're gonna put Alan Smith,
and then the employees hiring dates may say we're gonna put the seventh of June 2016 and
see what the L put would be.
So as you can see here,
we've all pitted the date in the correct format.
And if this macro is run on a computer that has its state formatted in the American format
,
it would still output the correct date.
The date will actually appear here in the American format because the computer is formatted
in the American format.
So the day that would appear in this cell with the 0607 2016 however,
the date that you're gonna input is gonna be interpreted correctly,
no matter what the date format on the computer that the macro is running on is so that's it
for the second example for the input box.
Thank you very much for watching this video and I'll see on the next one.